feat(docs): add collider examples (#306)
aica-technology/api: docs/docs/examples/core-components/colliders.md

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Colliders
---

import boxCollider from './assets/box-collider.png'
import boxColliderExample from './assets/box-collider-example.gif'
import planeColliderExample from './assets/plane-collider-example.gif'

# Colliders

:::tip

If you haven't done so already, review the corresponding
[concepts page](../../concepts/building-blocks/components/colliders.md) first.

:::

:::note

Until colliders are natively integrated in AICA Studio, these examples use RViz to visualize and move the collision
targets in space. RViz can be started directly from AICA Launcher.

<!-- TODO: Link to launcher page -->

:::

## Box Collider example

This example uses two `Interactive Marker` components for the target and center pose of the collider. The `Box Collider`

> is parametrize to define a box of dimensions 10cm x 20cm x 5cm around the center pose. Note that the

Reviewer: you can also use "10 by 20 by 5 centimeters", in the end it's not consequential so whatever you prefer

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Colliders
---

import colliderInterfaces from './assets/collider-interfaces.png'
import boxCollider from './assets/box-collider.png'
import boxColliderExample from './assets/box-collider-example.gif'
import planeColliderExample from './assets/plane-collider-example.gif'

# Colliders

The core components in AICA Studio contain several so-called _Collider_ components that detect whether a specific target
pose is inside or outside a virtual geometric object defined around a center pose. This functionality is crucial for
many robotic applications because it allows to:

- **Avoid collisions** by ensuring that robot parts or tools do not enter restricted or hazardous areas.
- **Enable safe interaction** by detecting when a gripper or end-effector is within a workspace or in contact with an
  object
- **Trigger context-aware actions** such as stopping or slowing down movement, initiating grasping, or sending alerts
  when a target enters or exits a region.

The components' full names refer to the geometrical object that is used to check for collision:

- Box Collider
- Cylinder Collider
- Sphere Collider
- Plane Collider

> <div class="text--center">
>   <img src={colliderInterfaces} alt="Collider interfaces" />
> </div>
> 
> All colliders have the same input signals and predicates, see above. Additionally, the collider variants come with their
>  individual parameters that are required to define the geometrical object:
> 
> - Box Collider: size of the box in x, y, and z direction
> - Cyclinder Collider: radius and height of the cylinder
> - Sphere Collider: radius of the sphere

Reviewer: I would put this in a sub section and expand on the interfaces a bit more.

```suggestion
## Interfaces

<div class="text--center">
  <img src={colliderInterfaces} alt="Collider interfaces" />
</div>

All colliders have the same input signals and predicates, as seen in the image above.
The target pose input refers to the Cartesian pose that is checked against the collider region.
The center pose input defines the center of the region (the barycenter of the geometric object).
The predicate "is in collision" is true whenever the target is within the collider region (or, in the
case of the Plane Collider, when the target is below the plane), and conversely the predicate
"is not in collision" is true in the opposite case.

### Parameters

Additionally, each collider variant has different parameters that are required to define specific properties.
For the following colliders, the parameters define the size and shape of the geometric object.

- Box Collider: the side lengths of the box in the x, y, and z direction
- Cylinder Collider: the radius of the cylinder in the x-y plane and the height in the z direction
- Sphere Collider: the radius of the sphere

For the plane collider, the parameter "Flip normal" determines which side of the plane is considered "in collision"; by default, this is when the z position of the target pose is negative in the coordinate system of the center pose.
```
